hello there my name is Kendall McGuire
and I am a professional piano teacher in
Tampa Bay Florida today I'm going to
help you find C major and C minor for
basic piano chords
well the supplies you'll need for this
is simply a piano or you can also use a
keyboard which is what I'll be
demonstrating on today to begin with
let's find middle C middle C is right
here and can be found to the left of the
two Black Keys in the middle of your
keyboard you notice there's other C's
around see these two black keys here
here's a C here's another C but we want
to get to the center of the keyboard if
you're on a piano it makes it a little
easier because the name of the piano
will be right in the center of the piano
and so you will look to the left of the
name of the piano and that will be your
middle C so that's sort of a starting
point in Arc's axiom for you there so
now that we found C we need to build our
course every chord is built off of one
three and five we have our triad which
is the one to three and that would be C
D E C to e one two three C being one D
being to be being three so CTE is our
triad and then we need to add the fifth
of the chord c d e f g c e g is our
basic C major chord I'm first going to
show you how to play the basic C major
chord and then I'm going to show you how
to make it minor how to make it a C
minor chord let's go back to the
keyboard here's our middle C found to
the left of the two Black Keys then we
need to go up a third notice how we're
skipping the D in the middle here's our
third now we're going to skip the F
because that will be the fourth and we
need the fifth here's our one three five
in the C major chord played with fingers
one three and five
now to make a chord minor all you have
to do is lower the third in this case by
a half step so if we currently have C E
and G the third would be the e the third
would be the third finger and the third
note that you play so we're going to
lower the e by a half step watch see e G
notice we currently have the e we need
to go down a half step we're going to
move it that's going to move us down to
the E flat so C minor
C E flat G notice the difference in the
sound a C major chord sounds a little
more happy
when we lower the third gives it a
little bit more melancholy sound
see major
see minor well that's how to find a C
major chord and a C minor chord on the
piano for basic piano chords I'm Kendall
McGuire thanks